
# Databases: Traveler (Postgres by Vercel)

## Description
This application was designed for users to be able to browse trips avaiable for a travel webpage. The original webpage was designed as a traditional webpage with static elements and a lot of template pictures utilized to create the user interface. The goal of this project previously in Full-Stack Development I was to transition this traditional webpage to a single-page application utilizing a MEAN stack. For enhancements to this artifact, however, I aimed to take the concepts of the traditional webpage and assignment and incoperate them into a different tech stack. I had previously had some experience in React with a MongoDB backend but wanted to implement further change to test myself and learn how to implement an even newer technology. Vercel has recently released NextJS which is essential a newer version of React. NextJS has additional functionality and methods built into it beyond the previous capabilities of React Native. As this technology wasn't anything that I had previously utilized I had to spend a significant amount of time in the docs learning functionality and changes from the traditional React framework I was familiar with. As this narrative focuses more specifically on the backend, I do want to focus on the database integrations for this application. Vercel offers many backend integration options through their platform and I chose to utilize PostgresSQL by Vercel for the database. It utilizes sql syntax and has built in methodology within NextJS for server calls within server components. It made sense to utilize this backend with this stack for those reasons.

## Goals
The goals for enhancments to this artifact was to create CRUD operations for the trip table in the database. I wanted to implement functionality for a user to view all trips, trips by specific codes, update single trips, as well as delete single trips. As this application is dynamic and utilizes server-based components in client rendering, a goal of this application was for this information to properly utilize NextJS functionality to render server-componets within client-components. Additional security methodology to querries to the database as well as object validation were desired to be implemented. Future goals include implementing create and login functionality for the users table. Users within this application will have Read-only permissions and will be able to toggle favorites within the lists of avaiable trips. This array should store these objects and allow users to view a favorites page populated from the local storage. Administrators will also be able to be created (Though not within the application) with the ability to perform all CRUD operations to all tables within the database. Through generated tokens we can provide an administrative view with additional functionality built into it. Enhancements performed to this artifact are listed below:
<ul>
  <li>Choose Vercel's Postgres for database</li>
  <li>Research implementation of Postgres as well</li>
  <li>Create database tables</li>
  <li>Link project to database through the Vercel platform</li>
  <li>Implement methodology to perform database operations</li>
  <li>Research different use cases of sql querries within NextJS and justify chosen implementation</li>
  <li>Add in-line commenting to server-component files and comment headers describing functionality of different pages,components, and logic files</li>
  <li>Develop plan for future releases of project</li>
</ul>

## Reflection
I had originally aimed to implement more functionality within the backend and views assosciated with different users between administrator and user. However I had to spend a lot of additional time learning about server-components within NextJS and did struggle implementing CRUD operations for the trip database and the components updating in the client-componenets. Due to the caching NextJS does I learned you have to revalidate these components after performing database operations. It was fun however to learn about the various methods available for accessing the database from the application and I enjoyed learning about some of the many benefits NextJS offers such as protection from sql injections within the usage of the sql package in NextJS. <br/>
This project demonstrates employing strategies for building collaborative environments that enable diverse audiences to support organizational decision making in the field of computer science. through providing extensive detailing through in-line commenting and header annotations I am able to demonstrate the ability to create positive code-review experiences as well as understand code review individually and within a team enviornment.  I also demonstrate the ability to discuss experiences and best experiences through implementing NextJS technology for rendering different types of components and expanding on the reasoning behind which within commenting within the codebase. By providing a very friendly and easily understandable format for the application through naming conventions, project structure, I also demonstrate best practices for working in a collaborative enviornment. Naming conventions within the database for tables and respective keys in these objects are transparent in their description and usage. Usage of validation through zod and forms also retains the structure of schemas for these objects and assure that form data is checked for validity before attempting to request with the server. <br/><br/>
The enhancements to this project also demonstrates delivering professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts. This is achieved through providing clear explanations of logic flow and implmementation within the application. Naming conventions for functions and files within the project aim to provide an increased understanding of the structure as well as understanding of the functionality. Commenting included are headers to explain the functionality of the file itself as well as in-line commenting to describe functionality of the code in the file. I demonstrate an understanding of the implementations of the functionality from NextJS and Vercel's Postgress and explain usage within the codebase as well as within this narrative where I had to learn about how to utilize NextJS to get the desired result in communications with the Postgres backend. <br/><br/>
Enhancements to this artifact also demonstrates a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources. Within the application any requests to the server that could be exploited are properly stored within a try-catch block to intercept errors within these requests and malicious requests that could be made by a threat actor. These server-components are called seperately within client-components to eliminate the threat of mutations to the original request that can alter the desired result of the application. Usage of the sql package in NextJS was also instrumental to protect querries from injection. There are built-in protected methods within NextJS and Postgres that allow developers to write hard querries within the codebase without fear of injections. Zod is a package that allows you to create virtual schemas based upon forms and validate expected inputs against database expectations. I was also able to implement functionality to deny the form for creating and updating trips from being submitted without input in each required key-value pair. This approach ensures all created objects within the table are validated against the database. By integrating additional tables with specific permissions I am able to demonstrate the ability to consider future changes to objects and classes with scalability for future usages within the application. Usage of Zod ensures that all requests to the server are validated explicitly. I also demonstrate a security mindstate by taking these measures and implementations for future security items as well as addressing bugs in software development lifecycle and sprints for future releases. <br/><br/>
Innovative techniques, skills, and tools are also demonstrated through this artifact. NextJS is a current technology that utilizes the Vercel platform for cloud computing needs. Integrations with various types of databases and backends are possible through the framework that they provide. Single-page applications have become a standard in the industry and provide a very dynamic interface across various devices. Single-page applications tend to be more responsive and perform logic quicker than traditional webpages as all pages and logic are loaded upon the initial request to the application. Through NextJS built-in methodology with the Postgres database and through other examples of usage of NextJS techniques to render sever-components I am able to display innovative techniques using innovative tools. <br/><br/>
I aim to expand further upon this assignment as it was hard for me to learn all the implementations of the technology and I am excited to expand upon the knowledge I have gained.

## Contributors
Jesse Draper (Myself)
Vercel platform for knowledge and tools for creating amazing applications
